You're looking at the largest continuous
urban area the world has ever seen.
86 million people fused into a single $2
trillion economic engine.
It's known as China's Greater Bay Area.
>> It's a bold and ambitious attempt by the
Chinese government to integrate 11
[music] cities.
>> For China, this is just the start. Its
latest five-year plan pivots from
individual cities to a focus on
mega-regional China,
>> [music]
>> a network of 19 massive clusters with
the Greater Bay Area as a primary engine
for growth.
>> China's relying a great deal on the
Greater Bay Area to provide this kind
[music] of a powerhouse innovative
economy with a long-term goal.
>> Smaller cities connecting into larger
ones goes back millennia. Yet, we're no
longer talking about a few thousand
merchants following a trade route, but
instead hundreds of millions of people
integrated into a single labor market.
Where gaps once took centuries to close,
rail lines and relentless paving are
swallowing the landscape [music] at a
rate of kilometers per day.
>> After 6,000 years of urbanism, cities
are becoming larger and larger. Every
single city is continuing to draw in
more [music] and more people for the
kinds of opportunities that they can't
get in any other sort of place.
>> Economists believe that unifying the
world's massive [music] urban centers
can revitalize economies and redefine
the rules of growth.
What happens here in China could be a
blueprint for the future of humanity.
This is China's megalopolis project.
For 99% of history, humans lived
nomadically in small scattered groups.
Then they began to settle, and 6,000
years ago, humans built the first
cities.
>> People came together and then gradually
found more and more opportunities for
employment, [music]
for education, and even for
entertainment.
>> And that promise is still true today.
Cities offer jobs, drive innovation, and
most importantly, they offer choice.
>> They draw people in even though they
have some objective disadvantages.
Cities can be crowded, polluted. We know
that diseases can travel more quickly in
a city. And yet, you can't keep people
out of them.
>> The 11 cities within China's Greater Bay
Area are some of the most productive
economic centers in the world.
They're among the most crowded, and the
region is about to get even more densely
packed.
An entire metropolis is being built in a
rural strip of land in northern Hong
Kong that will fill in the gaps,
physically connecting Hong Kong to the
larger Greater Bay Area.
>> On the north side, the Shenzhen side,
you can see skyscrapers. [music]
But then on the Hong Kong side, you see
fish ponds, farmlands, a lot of green
areas. These two territories are just
separated by a rather narrow river.
>> That river is the front line of what's
branded as Northern Metropolis, a
utopian multi-billion-dollar [music]
plan to develop the area into a tech
hub, housing everything from
cutting-edge laboratories to promising
startups, while physically bridging the
gap with mainland China.
Development here used to trigger
protests.
But later, after the government's
imposition of its national security law
and crackdown on mass democracy
protests, local opposition more broadly
has been silenced, removing potential
obstacles for developers.
>> I think they're more of a state of
resignation or acceptance because they
know that development will go ahead. All
they can do is just accept their fate.
>> I think the biggest loss will be the
untouched wildlife areas, but most of
all at the local communities.
>> I born in this village
in a house over there which was a wooden
hut.
I was really born in that wooden hut.
>> My mom would bring me here on weekends
and
all my uncles and their children were
around here and they'd teach me farm
things like how to build bonfires.
It's different looking over a public
park than it is looking over a real
wildlife hilly area.
>> Everywhere around here is starting lots
of buildings and roads is changing every
day.
And I think
it we won't be there here
for too long.
>> For the Hong Kong farmers, the northern
metropolis will proceed as planned
with the government offering cash and
public housing to relocate eligible
farmers and villagers.
But there is skepticism among local
developers and Shenzhen's tech giants
remain separated from Hong Kong by a
real world border and clashing financial
systems.
>> I don't think the government can just
say, "Oh, this will become the center of
a city and people will move there."
We've seen that fail so many times all
over the world.
>> In China, that government-driven
building led to ghost cities, massive
infrastructure projects that lay empty
for years.
But, over time, at least some of those
projects did fill up, proving that if
done in the right way, the if you build
it, they will come method can work.
>> So, when we think about what makes a
planned or new city successful, we often
should look right next door and see who
its neighbors are.
The emergence of a city is something
that usually starts out as a village or
a small town between places [music] that
are mapped out on the ground. So, if we
think about Shenzhen, that's right
[music] between Hong Kong and Guangzhou.
>> Shenzhen may be the fastest-growing
planned city in human history.
>> By the year 2000, a million people are
expected to live in Shenzhen.
>> By the year 2000, there were actually 7
million people living in Shenzhen.
It's now a mega city of [music] 18
million people that was essentially
willed into existence by the Chinese
government due to its strategic
proximity to Hong Kong and Guangzhou,
the capital city and cultural heart of
China's southern Guangdong province.
>> Basically, it seems overnight China
became a technological leader largely
due to Shenzhen and the cities in in
Guangdong.
>> We are about to start. Please make sure
you're
>> AR, robotics, semiconductors, clean
tech, and autonomous driving. These are
not just industries that the Chinese
government is showing off to impress the
world. They're actually important
drivers for the future.
>> Now, the Chinese government wants to
build upon Shenzhen's success.
For the 11 cities in the greater Bay
Area, that means utilizing each
individual city's strength to propel
China towards a high-tech future driven
by innovation.
>> Let's say you're a startup in Shenzhen,
you go to Hong Kong, raise money, use
that money, create a prototype in
Shenzhen, and from there you you know if
it if it if it works, you make it and
scale in Guangzhou, and then you launch
it in Macau.
>> It sounds logical in theory, but getting
the region to be a seamless, integrated
economy could be much harder in
practice.
>> What makes it very interesting is Hong
Kong and China got different political
systems, common law, you know, socialist
market economy, different tax regimes,
visa regimes, and all that. So, how do
you sort of merge these disparate uh
systems?
>> Hong Kong, which China considers one of
the four core cities within the
11-strong Greater Bay Area, has its own
legal system, currency, and passports,
and along with Macau, is separated by a
border. And that makes integration
through the Northern Metropolis project
a government priority.
>> Northern Metropolis is the uh engine for
us, not just for growth, for uplifting
as well.
>> Right.
>> [music]
>> But this engine is part of a much
larger, high-stakes transition for
China,
>> [music]
>> away from things like textiles, cheap
electronics, and a relentless boom in
real [music] estate.
Those engines are faltering. Growth has
slowed significantly as the country hits
a wall known as the middle-income
[music]
trap.
>> Moving from middle to high income
requires a very steep [music] increase
in productivity.
This is the ratcheting up of
productivity of all firms and labor
[music]
that will move China from a
middle-income to a high-income country
over the next 10 years.
>> [music]
>> Cities thrive when they don't have
borders.
Innovation succeeds through more
integration. Bring together the people,
the ideas, the customs.
Information is exchanged through
meetings, luncheons, mobility of labor.
And that means you have to be within a
half an hour, an hour of location of
economic activity. In this case, the
location of innovative activities, and
that is Shenzhen.
So, I think it's become much more of
what I call a economic political
objective, a regional program, [music]
and has very many complex dimensions.
>> While Hong Kong's loss of a distinct
physical and political frontier is
unique, its struggle might be a signal
of what's to come.
Across the globe, the individual city is
being swallowed by something much
larger.
From the Abidjan-Lagos Corridor in
Africa to the Northeast Corridor of the
US, the world is gravitating toward the
mega regions.
>> [music]
>> But as the fish ponds are filled with
concrete and the skyscrapers rise, what
will be lost in the pursuit of a
hyper-efficient future?
>> You should remember that some people
like living like this. You take it for
granted, and then other people come and
they've never picked something and then
eaten it, or touched a goat or a pig.
It's something you won't know that
you've got till it's gone.
>> For some, dystopia is simply giving up
natural land and old ways of life for
the sake of development. But for others,
that same development is a utopia, a
necessary leap into a high-tech future.
>> When people are saying, "Can we be
economically successful and not be a
concentrated urban or regional center?"
The answer is you cannot be.
People move to where the jobs are. The
same thing is true in the United States.
So, the Greater Bay Initiative, the
concept requires concentration [music]
of activities. But you can manage well
or you can manage it poorly, and your
success depends upon whether you are
able to do so.
>> [music]
>> But a city's success isn't just about
the political will to build it.
It's about the people's ability to live
in it.
>> [music]
>> For China, the reimagining of the urban
landscape is an economic priority.
And in the world where economic activity
is naturally pulling towards massive
clusters, China isn't just following the
trend. It's attempting to engineer its
outcome.
>> [music]